+++
title = "Digital Modeling for Everyone: Exploring How Novices Approach Voice-Based 3D Modeling"
date = "2023-06-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Giuseppe Desolda, Andrea Esposito, Florian M\u00fcller, Sebastian Feger"
authors_html = "Giuseppe Desolda, Andrea Esposito, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Sebastian Feger"
venue = "Human-Computer Interaction -- INTERACT 2023"
venue_short = "INTERACT"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{desoldaDigitalModelingEveryone2023,\n  author = {Desolda, Giuseppe and Esposito, Andrea and M\u00fcller, Florian and Feger, Sebastian},\n  editor = {Abdelnour Nocera, Jos\u00e9 and Krist\u00edn L\u00e1rusd\u00f3ttir, Marta and Petrie, Helen and Piccinno, Antonio and Winckler, Marco},\n  title = {Digital Modeling for Everyone: Exploring How Novices Approach Voice-Based 3D Modeling},\n  booktitle = {Human-Computer Interaction -- INTERACT 2023},\n  year = {2023},\n  pages = {133--155},\n  publisher = {Springer Nature Switzerland},\n  address = {Cham},\n  series = {Lecture Notes in Computer Science},\n  doi = {10.1007/978-3-031-42293-5_11},\n  isbn = {978-3-031-42293-5},\n  keywords = {3D Design,Digital Fabrication,Human ai interaction,Voice Interaction,Wizard of Oz Study},\n  abstract = {Manufacturing tools like 3D printers have become accessible to the wider society, making the promise of digital fabrication for everyone seemingly reachable. While the actual manufacturing process is largely automated today, users still require knowledge of complex design applications to produce ready-designed objects and adapt them to their needs or design new objects from scratch. To lower the barrier to the design and customization of personalized 3D models, we explored novice mental models in voice-based 3D modeling by conducting a high-fidelity Wizard of Oz study with 22 participants. We performed a thematic analysis of the collected data to understand how the mental model of novices translates into voice-based 3D modeling. We conclude with design implications for voice assistants. For example, they have to: deal with vague, incomplete and wrong commands; provide a set of straightforward commands to shape simple and composite objects; and offer different strategies to select 3D objects.},\n  langid = {english},\n}"
pdf = "desoldaDigitalModelingEveryone2023.pdf"
preview = "desoldaDigitalModelingEveryone2023.jpg"
doi = "10.1007/978-3-031-42293-5_11"
keywords = ["3D Design", "Digital Fabrication", "Human ai interaction", "Voice Interaction", "Wizard of Oz Study"]
+++

Manufacturing tools like 3D printers have become accessible to the wider society, making the promise of digital fabrication for everyone seemingly reachable. While the actual manufacturing process is largely automated today, users still require knowledge of complex design applications to produce ready-designed objects and adapt them to their needs or design new objects from scratch. To lower the barrier to the design and customization of personalized 3D models, we explored novice mental models in voice-based 3D modeling by conducting a high-fidelity Wizard of Oz study with 22 participants. We performed a thematic analysis of the collected data to understand how the mental model of novices translates into voice-based 3D modeling. We conclude with design implications for voice assistants. For example, they have to: deal with vague, incomplete and wrong commands; provide a set of straightforward commands to shape simple and composite objects; and offer different strategies to select 3D objects.