+++
title = "Embracer: A Wearable Encountered-Type Haptic Controller for 3 DoF Input and Feedback"
date = "2024-10-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Dennis Dietz, Steeven Villa, Moritz Ziarko, Michael Bonfert, Florian M\u00fcller, Andreas Butz"
authors_html = "Dennis Dietz, Steeven Villa, Moritz Ziarko, Michael Bonfert, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Andreas Butz"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2024 ACM International Symposium on Wearable Computers"
venue_short = "ISWC"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{dietzEmbracerWearableEncounteredType2024,\n  author = {Dietz, Dennis and Villa, Steeven and Ziarko, Moritz and Bonfert, Michael and M\u00fcller, Florian and Butz, Andreas},\n  title = {Embracer: A Wearable Encountered-Type Haptic Controller for 3 DoF Input and Feedback},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2024 ACM International Symposium on Wearable Computers},\n  year = {2024},\n  month = {oct},\n  pages = {140--143},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {ISWC '24},\n  doi = {10.1145/3675095.3676626},\n  isbn = {979-8-4007-1059-9},\n  keywords = {embodied,xr},\n  abstract = {The lack of haptic sensations beyond very simple vibration feedback diminishes the feeling of presence in Virtual Reality. Research suggested various approaches to deliver haptic sensations to the user's palm. However, these approaches are typically limited in the number of actuation directions and only focus on enhancing the system's output, ignoring haptic input. We present Embracer, a wrist-mounted encountered-type haptic controller that addresses these gaps by rendering forces along three axes through a sphere-shaped end effector within the user's palm. Using modified servo motors, we sense user-performed manipulations of the end effector as an input modality. In this paper, we contribute the design and implementation of Embracer together with a preliminary technical evaluation. By providing a more comprehensive haptic feedback system, Embracer enhances the realism and immersion of haptic feedback and user control.},\n}"
pdf = "dietzEmbracerWearableEncounteredType2024.pdf"
preview = "dietzEmbracerWearableEncounteredType2024.jpg"
doi = "10.1145/3675095.3676626"
keywords = ["embodied", "xr"]
+++

The lack of haptic sensations beyond very simple vibration feedback diminishes the feeling of presence in Virtual Reality. Research suggested various approaches to deliver haptic sensations to the user's palm. However, these approaches are typically limited in the number of actuation directions and only focus on enhancing the system's output, ignoring haptic input. We present Embracer, a wrist-mounted encountered-type haptic controller that addresses these gaps by rendering forces along three axes through a sphere-shaped end effector within the user's palm. Using modified servo motors, we sense user-performed manipulations of the end effector as an input modality. In this paper, we contribute the design and implementation of Embracer together with a preliminary technical evaluation. By providing a more comprehensive haptic feedback system, Embracer enhances the realism and immersion of haptic feedback and user control.