+++
title = "CameraReady: Assessing the Influence of Display Types and Visualizations on Posture Guidance"
date = "2021-06-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Hesham Elsayed, Philipp Hoffmann, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Martin Schmitz, Martin Weigel, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Florian M\u00fcller"
authors_html = "Hesham Elsayed, Philipp Hoffmann, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Martin Schmitz, Martin Weigel, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>"
venue = "Designing Interactive Systems Conference 2021"
venue_short = "DIS"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{Elsayed2021a,\n  author = {Elsayed, Hesham and Hoffmann, Philipp and G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Schmitz, Martin and Weigel, Martin and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max and M\u00fcller, Florian},\n  title = {CameraReady: Assessing the Influence of Display Types and Visualizations on Posture Guidance},\n  booktitle = {Designing Interactive Systems Conference 2021},\n  year = {2021},\n  month = {jun},\n  pages = {1046--1055},\n  publisher = {ACM},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  doi = {10.1145/3461778.3462026},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-8476-6},\n  keywords = {augmented reality,display,mobile,posture guidance,visualization},\n  abstract = {Computer-supported posture guidance is used in sports, dance training, expression of art with movements, and learning gestures for interaction. At present, the influence of display types and visualizations have not been investigated in the literature. These factors are important as they directly impact perception and cognitive load, and hence influence the performance of participants. In this paper, we conducted a controlled experiment with 20 participants to compare the use of five display types with different screen sizes: smartphones, tablets, desktop monitors, TVs, and large displays. On each device, we compared three common visualizations for posture guidance: skeletons, silhouettes, and 3d body models. To conduct our assessment, we developed a mobile and cross-platform system that only requires a single camera. Our results show that compared to a smartphone display, larger displays show a lower error (12\\%). Regarding the choice of visualization, participants rated 3D body models as significantly more usable in comparison to a skeleton visualization.},\n}"
pdf = "Elsayed2021a.pdf"
preview = "Elsayed2021a.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9OWH4eBrHtk"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KAjwxyqAegY"
doi = "10.1145/3461778.3462026"
keywords = ["augmented reality", "display", "mobile", "posture guidance", "visualization"]
+++

Computer-supported posture guidance is used in sports, dance training, expression of art with movements, and learning gestures for interaction. At present, the influence of display types and visualizations have not been investigated in the literature. These factors are important as they directly impact perception and cognitive load, and hence influence the performance of participants. In this paper, we conducted a controlled experiment with 20 participants to compare the use of five display types with different screen sizes: smartphones, tablets, desktop monitors, TVs, and large displays. On each device, we compared three common visualizations for posture guidance: skeletons, silhouettes, and 3d body models. To conduct our assessment, we developed a mobile and cross-platform system that only requires a single camera. Our results show that compared to a smartphone display, larger displays show a lower error (12\%). Regarding the choice of visualization, participants rated 3D body models as significantly more usable in comparison to a skeleton visualization.