+++
title = "VibroMap: Understanding the Spacing of Vibrotactile Actuators across the Body"
date = "2020-12-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Hesham Elsayed, Martin Weigel, Florian M\u00fcller, Martin Schmitz, Karola Marky, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Jan Riemann, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
authors_html = "Hesham Elsayed, Martin Weigel, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Martin Schmitz, Karola Marky, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Jan Riemann, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
venue = "Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable and Ubiquitous Technologies"
venue_short = "IMWUT"
bibtex = "@article{elsayedVibroMapUnderstandingSpacing2020,\n  author = {Elsayed, Hesham and Weigel, Martin and M\u00fcller, Florian and Schmitz, Martin and Marky, Karola and G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Riemann, Jan and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max},\n  title = {VibroMap: Understanding the Spacing of Vibrotactile Actuators across the Body},\n  journal = {Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable and Ubiquitous Technologies},\n  year = {2020},\n  month = {dec},\n  volume = {4},\n  number = {4},\n  pages = {125:1--125:16},\n  publisher = {ACM},\n  doi = {10.1145/3432189},\n  keywords = {actuator spacing,design implications,ERM vibration motors,haptic output,phantom sensation,vibrotactile interfaces,wearable computing},\n  abstract = {In spite of the great potential of on-body vibrotactile displays for a variety of applications, research lacks an understanding of the spacing between vibrotactile actuators. Through two experiments, we systematically investigate vibrotactile perception on the wrist, forearm, upper arm, back, torso, thigh, and leg, each in transverse and longitudinal body orientation. In the first experiment, we address the maximum distance between vibration motors that still preserves the ability to generate phantom sensations. In the second experiment, we investigate the perceptual accuracy of localizing vibrations in order to establish the minimum distance between vibration motors. Based on the results, we derive VibroMap, a spatial map of the functional range of inter-motor distances across the body. VibroMap supports hardware and interaction designers with design guidelines for constructing body-worn vibrotactile displays.},\n}"
pdf = "elsayedVibroMapUnderstandingSpacing2020.pdf"
preview = "elsayedVibroMapUnderstandingSpacing2020.jpg"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vRKEkogg5A"
doi = "10.1145/3432189"
keywords = ["actuator spacing", "design implications", "ERM vibration motors", "haptic output", "phantom sensation", "vibrotactile interfaces", "wearable computing"]
+++

In spite of the great potential of on-body vibrotactile displays for a variety of applications, research lacks an understanding of the spacing between vibrotactile actuators. Through two experiments, we systematically investigate vibrotactile perception on the wrist, forearm, upper arm, back, torso, thigh, and leg, each in transverse and longitudinal body orientation. In the first experiment, we address the maximum distance between vibration motors that still preserves the ability to generate phantom sensations. In the second experiment, we investigate the perceptual accuracy of localizing vibrations in order to establish the minimum distance between vibration motors. Based on the results, we derive VibroMap, a spatial map of the functional range of inter-motor distances across the body. VibroMap supports hardware and interaction designers with design guidelines for constructing body-worn vibrotactile displays.