+++
title = "ActuBoard: An Open Rapid Prototyping Platform to Integrate Hardware Actuators in Remote Applications"
date = "2021-06-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Florian M\u00fcller, Felix H\u00fcbner, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Andrii Matviienko"
authors_html = "Sebastian G\u00fcnther, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Felix H\u00fcbner, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Andrii Matviienko"
venue = "Companion of the 2021 ACM SIGCHI Symposium on Engineering Interactive Computing Systems"
venue_short = "EICS"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{guntherActuBoardOpenRapid2021,\n  author = {G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and M\u00fcller, Florian and H\u00fcbner, Felix and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max and Matviienko, Andrii},\n  title = {ActuBoard: An Open Rapid Prototyping Platform to Integrate Hardware Actuators in Remote Applications},\n  booktitle = {Companion of the 2021 ACM SIGCHI Symposium on Engineering Interactive Computing Systems},\n  year = {2021},\n  month = {jun},\n  pages = {70--76},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {EICS '21},\n  doi = {10.1145/3459926.3464757},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-8449-0},\n  keywords = {actuators,haptics,hardware,open source,rapid prototyping,tinkering,virtual reality,xr},\n  abstract = {Prototyping is an essential step in developing tangible experiences and novel devices, ranging from haptic feedback to wearables. However, prototyping of actuated devices nowadays often requires repetitive and time-consuming steps, such as wiring, soldering, and programming basic communication, before HCI researchers and designers can focus on their primary interest: designing interaction. In this paper, we present ActuBoard, a prototyping platform to support 1) quick assembly, 2) less preparation work, and 3) the inclusion of non-tech-savvy users. With ActuBoard, users are not required to create complex circuitry, write a single line of firmware, or implementing communication protocols. Acknowledging existing systems, our platform combines the flexibility of low-level microcontrollers and ease-of-use of abstracted tinker platforms to control actuators from separate applications. As further contribution, we highlight the technical specifications and published the ActuBoard platform as Open Source.},\n}"
pdf = "guntherActuBoardOpenRapid2021.pdf"
preview = "guntherActuBoardOpenRapid2021.jpg"
code = "https://git.tk.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/sebastian.guenther/actuboard-public"
doi = "10.1145/3459926.3464757"
keywords = ["actuators", "haptics", "hardware", "open source", "rapid prototyping", "tinkering", "virtual reality", "xr"]
+++

Prototyping is an essential step in developing tangible experiences and novel devices, ranging from haptic feedback to wearables. However, prototyping of actuated devices nowadays often requires repetitive and time-consuming steps, such as wiring, soldering, and programming basic communication, before HCI researchers and designers can focus on their primary interest: designing interaction. In this paper, we present ActuBoard, a prototyping platform to support 1) quick assembly, 2) less preparation work, and 3) the inclusion of non-tech-savvy users. With ActuBoard, users are not required to create complex circuitry, write a single line of firmware, or implementing communication protocols. Acknowledging existing systems, our platform combines the flexibility of low-level microcontrollers and ease-of-use of abstracted tinker platforms to control actuators from separate applications. As further contribution, we highlight the technical specifications and published the ActuBoard platform as Open Source.