+++
title = "Therminator : Understanding the Interdependency of Visual and On-Body Thermal Feedback in Virtual Reality"
date = "2020-06-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Omar Elmoghazy, Florian M\u00fcller, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Martin Schmitz"
authors_html = "Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Omar Elmoghazy, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Martin Schmitz"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI '20"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{Gunther2020,\n  author = {G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Elmoghazy, Omar and M\u00fcller, Florian and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max and Sch\u00f6n, Dominik and Schmitz, Martin},\n  title = {Therminator : Understanding the Interdependency of Visual and On-Body Thermal Feedback in Virtual Reality},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI '20},\n  year = {2020},\n  volume = {20},\n  pages = {1--14},\n  publisher = {ACM},\n  doi = {10.1145/3313831.3376195},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-6708-0},\n  keywords = {Author Keywords Haptics,embodied,Haptic devices,haptics,temperature,Temperature,thermal feedback,Thermal Feedback,User studies,virtual reality,Virtual Reality CCS Concepts Human-centered compu,xr},\n  abstract = {Recent advances have made Virtual Reality (VR) more realistic than ever before. This improved realism is attributed to today's ability to increasingly appeal to human sensations, such as visual, auditory or tactile. While research also examines temperature sensation as an important aspect, the interdependency of visual and thermal perception in VR is still underexplored. In this paper, we propose Therminator, a thermal display concept that provides warm and cold on-body feedback in VR through heat conduction of flowing liquids with different temperatures. Further, we systematically evaluate the interdependency of different visual and thermal stimuli on the temperature perception of arm and abdomen with 25 participants. As part of the results, we found varying temperature perception depending on the stimuli, as well as increasing involvement of users during conditions with matching stimuli.},\n}"
pdf = "Gunther2020.pdf"
preview = "Gunther2020.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q5lkmqAua78"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p36TkvjTXfc"
doi = "10.1145/3313831.3376195"
keywords = ["Author Keywords Haptics", "embodied", "Haptic devices", "haptics", "temperature", "Temperature", "thermal feedback", "Thermal Feedback", "User studies", "virtual reality", "Virtual Reality CCS Concepts Human-centered compu", "xr"]
+++

Recent advances have made Virtual Reality (VR) more realistic than ever before. This improved realism is attributed to today's ability to increasingly appeal to human sensations, such as visual, auditory or tactile. While research also examines temperature sensation as an important aspect, the interdependency of visual and thermal perception in VR is still underexplored. In this paper, we propose Therminator, a thermal display concept that provides warm and cold on-body feedback in VR through heat conduction of flowing liquids with different temperatures. Further, we systematically evaluate the interdependency of different visual and thermal stimuli on the temperature perception of arm and abdomen with 25 participants. As part of the results, we found varying temperature perception depending on the stimuli, as well as increasing involvement of users during conditions with matching stimuli.