+++
title = "Smooth as Steel Wool: Effects of Visual Stimuli on the Haptic Perception of Roughness in Virtual Reality"
date = "2022-04-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Julian Rasch, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Florian M\u00fcller, Martin Schmitz, Jan Riemann, Andrii Matviienko, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
authors_html = "Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Julian Rasch, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Martin Schmitz, Jan Riemann, Andrii Matviienko, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{guntherSmoothSteelWool2022,\n  author = {G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Rasch, Julian and Sch\u00f6n, Dominik and M\u00fcller, Florian and Schmitz, Martin and Riemann, Jan and Matviienko, Andrii and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max},\n  title = {Smooth as Steel Wool: Effects of Visual Stimuli on the Haptic Perception of Roughness in Virtual Reality},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2022},\n  month = {apr},\n  pages = {1--17},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI '22},\n  doi = {10.1145/3491102.3517454},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-9157-3},\n  keywords = {caress,embodied,haptic feedback,perception,roughness,stroke,touch,virtual reality,xr},\n  abstract = {Haptic Feedback is essential for lifelike Virtual Reality (VR) experiences. To provide a wide range of matching sensations of being touched or stroked, current approaches typically need large numbers of different physical textures. However, even advanced devices can only accommodate a limited number of textures to remain wearable. Therefore, a better understanding is necessary of how expectations elicited by different visualizations affect haptic perception, to achieve a balance between physical constraints and great variety of matching physical textures. In this work, we conducted an experiment (N=31) assessing how the perception of roughness is affected within VR. We designed a prototype for arm stroking and compared the effects of different visualizations on the perception of physical textures with distinct roughnesses. Additionally, we used the visualizations' real-world materials, no-haptics and vibrotactile feedback as baselines. As one result, we found that two levels of roughness can be sufficient to convey a realistic illusion.},\n}"
pdf = "guntherSmoothSteelWool2022.pdf"
preview = "guntherSmoothSteelWool2022.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IdbIvF004UA"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h0FQZQ26uoU"
doi = "10.1145/3491102.3517454"
keywords = ["caress", "embodied", "haptic feedback", "perception", "roughness", "stroke", "touch", "virtual reality", "xr"]
+++

Haptic Feedback is essential for lifelike Virtual Reality (VR) experiences. To provide a wide range of matching sensations of being touched or stroked, current approaches typically need large numbers of different physical textures. However, even advanced devices can only accommodate a limited number of textures to remain wearable. Therefore, a better understanding is necessary of how expectations elicited by different visualizations affect haptic perception, to achieve a balance between physical constraints and great variety of matching physical textures. In this work, we conducted an experiment (N=31) assessing how the perception of roughness is affected within VR. We designed a prototype for arm stroking and compared the effects of different visualizations on the perception of physical textures with distinct roughnesses. Additionally, we used the visualizations' real-world materials, no-haptics and vibrotactile feedback as baselines. As one result, we found that two levels of roughness can be sufficient to convey a realistic illusion.