+++
title = "Social MediARverse: Investigating Users' Social Media Content Sharing and Consuming Intentions with Location-Based AR"
date = "2025-07-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Linda Hirsch, Florian Mueller, Mari Kruse, Andreas Butz, Robin Welsch"
authors_html = "Linda Hirsch, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian Mueller</span>, Mari Kruse, Andreas Butz, Robin Welsch"
venue = "Virtual Reality"
venue_short = "VR"
bibtex = "@article{hirschSocialMediARverseInvestigating2025,\n  author = {Hirsch, Linda and Mueller, Florian and Kruse, Mari and Butz, Andreas and Welsch, Robin},\n  title = {Social MediARverse: Investigating Users' Social Media Content Sharing and Consuming Intentions with Location-Based AR},\n  journal = {Virtual Reality},\n  year = {2025},\n  month = {jul},\n  volume = {29},\n  number = {3},\n  pages = {110},\n  publisher = {Springer},\n  doi = {10.1007/s10055-025-01188-z},\n  issn = {1434-9957},\n  eprint = {2409.00211},\n  archiveprefix = {arXiv},\n  keywords = {3D,AR,Augmented reality,Digital Sociology,Dynamic content,Location-based,Media Research,Media Sociology,mobile,Social Influence,Social media,Social Media,Static,Virtual and Augmented Reality,xr},\n  abstract = {Augmented Reality (AR) is evolving to become the next frontier in social media, merging physical and virtual reality into a living metaverse, a Social MediARverse. With this transition, we must understand how different contexts---public, semi-public, and private---affect user engagement with AR content. We address this gap in current research by conducting an online survey with 110 participants, showcasing 36 AR videos, and polling them about the content's fit and appropriateness. Specifically, we manipulated these three spaces, two forms of dynamism (dynamic vs. static), and two dimensionalities (2D vs. 3D). Our findings reveal that dynamic AR content is generally more favorably received than static content. Additionally, users find sharing and engaging with AR content in private settings more comfortable than in others. By this, the study offers valuable insights for designing and implementing future Social MediARverses and guides industry and academia on content visualization and contextual considerations.},\n  langid = {english},\n}"
pdf = "hirschSocialMediARverseInvestigating2025.pdf"
preview = "hirschSocialMediARverseInvestigating2025.jpg"
arxiv = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00211"
doi = "10.1007/s10055-025-01188-z"
keywords = ["3D", "AR", "Augmented reality", "Digital Sociology", "Dynamic content", "Location-based", "Media Research", "Media Sociology", "mobile", "Social Influence", "Social media", "Social Media", "Static", "Virtual and Augmented Reality", "xr"]
+++

Augmented Reality (AR) is evolving to become the next frontier in social media, merging physical and virtual reality into a living metaverse, a Social MediARverse. With this transition, we must understand how different contexts---public, semi-public, and private---affect user engagement with AR content. We address this gap in current research by conducting an online survey with 110 participants, showcasing 36 AR videos, and polling them about the content's fit and appropriateness. Specifically, we manipulated these three spaces, two forms of dynamism (dynamic vs. static), and two dimensionalities (2D vs. 3D). Our findings reveal that dynamic AR content is generally more favorably received than static content. Additionally, users find sharing and engaging with AR content in private settings more comfortable than in others. By this, the study offers valuable insights for designing and implementing future Social MediARverses and guides industry and academia on content visualization and contextual considerations.