+++
title = "NotiBike: Assessing Target Selection Techniques for Cyclist Notifications in Augmented Reality"
date = "2022-09-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Thomas Kosch, Andrii Matviienko, Florian M\u00fcller, Jessica Bersch, Christopher Katins, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
authors_html = "Thomas Kosch, Andrii Matviienko, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Jessica Bersch, Christopher Katins, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
venue = "Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction"
venue_short = "PACMHCI"
bibtex = "@article{koschNotiBikeAssessingTarget2022,\n  author = {Kosch, Thomas and Matviienko, Andrii and M\u00fcller, Florian and Bersch, Jessica and Katins, Christopher and Sch\u00f6n, Dominik and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max},\n  title = {NotiBike: Assessing Target Selection Techniques for Cyclist Notifications in Augmented Reality},\n  journal = {Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction},\n  year = {2022},\n  month = {sep},\n  volume = {6},\n  number = {MHCI},\n  pages = {197:1--197:24},\n  publisher = {ACM},\n  doi = {10.1145/3546732},\n  keywords = {augmented reality,cycling,mobile,notifications,selection,xr},\n  abstract = {Cyclists' attention is often compromised when interacting with notifications in traffic, hence increasing the likelihood of road accidents. To address this issue, we evaluate three notification interaction modalities and investigate their impact on the interaction performance while cycling: gaze-based Dwell Time, Gestures, and Manual And Gaze Input Cascaded (MAGIC) Pointing. In a user study (N=18), participants confirmed notifications in Augmented Reality (AR) using the three interaction modalities in a simulated biking scenario. We assessed the efficiency regarding reaction times, error rates, and perceived task load. Our results show significantly faster response times for MAGIC Pointing compared to Dwell Time and Gestures, while Dwell Time led to a significantly lower error rate compared to Gestures. Participants favored the MAGIC Pointing approach, supporting cyclists in AR selection tasks. Our research sets the boundaries for more comfortable and easier interaction with notifications and discusses implications for target selections in AR while cycling.},\n}"
pdf = "koschNotiBikeAssessingTarget2022.pdf"
preview = "koschNotiBikeAssessingTarget2022.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTYBTULau7U"
doi = "10.1145/3546732"
keywords = ["augmented reality", "cycling", "mobile", "notifications", "selection", "xr"]
+++

Cyclists' attention is often compromised when interacting with notifications in traffic, hence increasing the likelihood of road accidents. To address this issue, we evaluate three notification interaction modalities and investigate their impact on the interaction performance while cycling: gaze-based Dwell Time, Gestures, and Manual And Gaze Input Cascaded (MAGIC) Pointing. In a user study (N=18), participants confirmed notifications in Augmented Reality (AR) using the three interaction modalities in a simulated biking scenario. We assessed the efficiency regarding reaction times, error rates, and perceived task load. Our results show significantly faster response times for MAGIC Pointing compared to Dwell Time and Gestures, while Dwell Time led to a significantly lower error rate compared to Gestures. Participants favored the MAGIC Pointing approach, supporting cyclists in AR selection tasks. Our research sets the boundaries for more comfortable and easier interaction with notifications and discusses implications for target selections in AR while cycling.