+++
title = "Let's Frets! Assisting Guitar Students During Practice via Capacitive Sensing"
date = "2021-05-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Karola Marky, Andreas Wei\u00df, Andrii Matviienko, Florian Brandherm, Sebastian Wolf, Martin Schmitz, Florian Krell, Florian M\u00fcller, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Thomas Kosch"
authors_html = "Karola Marky, Andreas Wei\u00df, Andrii Matviienko, Florian Brandherm, Sebastian Wolf, Martin Schmitz, Florian Krell, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Thomas Kosch"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{markyLetsFretsAssisting2021,\n  author = {Marky, Karola and Wei\u00df, Andreas and Matviienko, Andrii and Brandherm, Florian and Wolf, Sebastian and Schmitz, Martin and Krell, Florian and M\u00fcller, Florian and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max and Kosch, Thomas},\n  title = {Let's Frets! Assisting Guitar Students During Practice via Capacitive Sensing},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2021},\n  month = {may},\n  pages = {1--12},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI '21},\n  doi = {10.1145/3411764.3445595},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-8096-6},\n  keywords = {capacitive sensing,Capacitive sensing,musical instruments,Musical instruments,support setup,Support setup},\n  abstract = {Learning a musical instrument requires regular exercise. However, students are often on their own during their practice sessions due to the limited time with their teachers, which increases the likelihood of mislearning playing techniques. To address this issue, we present Let's Frets - a modular guitar learning system that provides visual indicators and capturing of finger positions on a 3D-printed capacitive guitar fretboard. We based the design of Let's Frets on requirements collected through in-depth interviews with professional guitarists and teachers. In a user study (N=24), we evaluated the feedback modules of Let's Frets against fretboard charts. Our results show that visual indicators require the least time to realize new finger positions while a combination of visual indicators and position capturing yielded the highest playing accuracy. We conclude how Let's Frets enables independent practice sessions that can be translated to other musical instruments.},\n}"
pdf = "markyLetsFretsAssisting2021.pdf"
preview = "markyLetsFretsAssisting2021.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vFx8c5aF6vA"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YhLuCpgnaBg"
doi = "10.1145/3411764.3445595"
keywords = ["capacitive sensing", "Capacitive sensing", "musical instruments", "Musical instruments", "support setup", "Support setup"]
+++

Learning a musical instrument requires regular exercise. However, students are often on their own during their practice sessions due to the limited time with their teachers, which increases the likelihood of mislearning playing techniques. To address this issue, we present Let's Frets - a modular guitar learning system that provides visual indicators and capturing of finger positions on a 3D-printed capacitive guitar fretboard. We based the design of Let's Frets on requirements collected through in-depth interviews with professional guitarists and teachers. In a user study (N=24), we evaluated the feedback modules of Let's Frets against fretboard charts. Our results show that visual indicators require the least time to realize new finger positions while a combination of visual indicators and position capturing yielded the highest playing accuracy. We conclude how Let's Frets enables independent practice sessions that can be translated to other musical instruments.