+++
title = "Decide Yourself or Delegate - User Preferences Regarding the Autonomy of Personal Privacy Assistants in Private IoT-Equipped Environments"
date = "2024-05-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Karola Marky, Alina St\u00f6ver, Sarah Prange, Kira Bleck, Paul Gerber, Verena Zimmermann, Florian M\u00fcller, Florian Alt, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
authors_html = "Karola Marky, Alina St\u00f6ver, Sarah Prange, Kira Bleck, Paul Gerber, Verena Zimmermann, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Florian Alt, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{markyDecideYourselfDelegate2024,\n  author = {Marky, Karola and St\u00f6ver, Alina and Prange, Sarah and Bleck, Kira and Gerber, Paul and Zimmermann, Verena and M\u00fcller, Florian and Alt, Florian and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max},\n  title = {Decide Yourself or Delegate - User Preferences Regarding the Autonomy of Personal Privacy Assistants in Private IoT-Equipped Environments},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2024},\n  month = {may},\n  pages = {1--20},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI '24},\n  doi = {10.1145/3613904.3642591},\n  isbn = {979-8-4007-0330-0},\n  keywords = {IoT,personal privacy assistance,privacy,privacy profiles},\n  abstract = {Personalized privacy assistants (PPAs) communicate privacy-related decisions of their users to Internet of Things (IoT) devices. There are different ways to implement PPAs by varying the degree of autonomy or decision model. This paper investigates user perceptions of PPA autonomy models and privacy profiles -- archetypes of individual privacy needs -- as a basis for PPA decisions in private environments (e.g., a friend's home). We first explore how privacy profiles can be assigned to users and propose an assignment method. Next, we investigate user perceptions in 18 usage scenarios with varying contexts, data types and number of decisions in a study with 1126 participants. We found considerable differences between the profiles in settings with few decisions. If the number of decisions gets high (> 1/h), participants exclusively preferred fully autonomous PPAs. Finally, we discuss implications and recommendations for designing scalable PPAs that serve as privacy interfaces for future IoT devices.},\n}"
pdf = "markyDecideYourselfDelegate2024.pdf"
preview = "markyDecideYourselfDelegate2024.jpg"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-E3HUB7onCs"
doi = "10.1145/3613904.3642591"
keywords = ["IoT", "personal privacy assistance", "privacy", "privacy profiles"]
+++

Personalized privacy assistants (PPAs) communicate privacy-related decisions of their users to Internet of Things (IoT) devices. There are different ways to implement PPAs by varying the degree of autonomy or decision model. This paper investigates user perceptions of PPA autonomy models and privacy profiles -- archetypes of individual privacy needs -- as a basis for PPA decisions in private environments (e.g., a friend's home). We first explore how privacy profiles can be assigned to users and propose an assignment method. Next, we investigate user perceptions in 18 usage scenarios with varying contexts, data types and number of decisions in a study with 1126 participants. We found considerable differences between the profiles in settings with few decisions. If the number of decisions gets high (> 1/h), participants exclusively preferred fully autonomous PPAs. Finally, we discuss implications and recommendations for designing scalable PPAs that serve as privacy interfaces for future IoT devices.