+++
title = "BikeAR: Understanding Cyclists' Crossing Decision-Making at Uncontrolled Intersections Using Augmented Reality"
date = "2022-04-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Andrii Matviienko, Florian M\u00fcller, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Paul Seesemann, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
authors_html = "Andrii Matviienko, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Paul Seesemann, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{matviienkoBikeARUnderstandingCyclists2022,\n  author = {Matviienko, Andrii and M\u00fcller, Florian and Sch\u00f6n, Dominik and Seesemann, Paul and G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max},\n  title = {BikeAR: Understanding Cyclists' Crossing Decision-Making at Uncontrolled Intersections Using Augmented Reality},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2022},\n  month = {apr},\n  pages = {1--15},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI '22},\n  doi = {10.1145/3491102.3517560},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-9157-3},\n  keywords = {augmented reality,crossing decision-making,cyclist safety},\n  abstract = {Cycling has become increasingly popular as a means of transportation. However, cyclists remain a highly vulnerable group of road users. According to accident reports, one of the most dangerous situations for cyclists are uncontrolled intersections, where cars approach from both directions. To address this issue and assist cyclists in crossing decision-making at uncontrolled intersections, we designed two visualizations that: (1) highlight occluded cars through an X-ray vision and (2) depict the remaining time the intersection is safe to cross via a Countdown. To investigate the efficiency of these visualizations, we proposed an Augmented Reality simulation as a novel evaluation method, in which the above visualizations are represented as AR, and conducted a controlled experiment with 24 participants indoors. We found that the X-ray ensures a fast selection of shorter gaps between cars, while the Countdown facilitates a feeling of safety and provides a better intersection overview.},\n}"
pdf = "matviienkoBikeARUnderstandingCyclists2022.pdf"
preview = "matviienkoBikeARUnderstandingCyclists2022.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKsDlPmSd68"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eA7D239WOd0"
doi = "10.1145/3491102.3517560"
keywords = ["augmented reality", "crossing decision-making", "cyclist safety"]
+++

Cycling has become increasingly popular as a means of transportation. However, cyclists remain a highly vulnerable group of road users. According to accident reports, one of the most dangerous situations for cyclists are uncontrolled intersections, where cars approach from both directions. To address this issue and assist cyclists in crossing decision-making at uncontrolled intersections, we designed two visualizations that: (1) highlight occluded cars through an X-ray vision and (2) depict the remaining time the intersection is safe to cross via a Countdown. To investigate the efficiency of these visualizations, we proposed an Augmented Reality simulation as a novel evaluation method, in which the above visualizations are represented as AR, and conducted a controlled experiment with 24 participants indoors. We found that the X-ray ensures a fast selection of shorter gaps between cars, while the Countdown facilitates a feeling of safety and provides a better intersection overview.