+++
title = "ProxiWatch: Enhancing Smartwatch Interaction through Proximity-Based Hand Input"
date = "2016-06-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Florian M\u00fcller, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Niloofar Dezfuli, Mohammadreza Khalilbeigi, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
authors_html = "<span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Niloofar Dezfuli, Mohammadreza Khalilbeigi, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI EA '16"
venue_short = "CHI EA"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{muller2016proxiwatch,\n  author = {M\u00fcller, Florian and G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Dezfuli, Niloofar and Khalilbeigi, Mohammadreza and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max},\n  title = {ProxiWatch: Enhancing Smartwatch Interaction through Proximity-Based Hand Input},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI EA '16},\n  year = {2016},\n  pages = {2617--2624},\n  publisher = {ACM},\n  address = {New York, New York, USA},\n  doi = {10.1145/2851581.2892450},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-4082-3},\n  keywords = {design,Design,embodied,human factors,Human factors,Human Factors,measurement,Measurement,mobile,notion,smartwatch,Smartwatch,Smartwatch.},\n  abstract = {Smartwatches allow ubiquitous and mobile interaction with digital contents. Because of the small screen sizes, tradi-tional interaction techniques are often not applicable. In this work, we show how the degree of freedom offered by the elbow joint, i.e., flexion and extension, can be leveraged as an additional one-handed input modality for smartwatches. By moving the watch towards or away from the body, the user is able to provide input to the smartwatch without a second hand. We present the results of a controlled ex-periment focusing on the human capabilities for proximity-based interaction. Based on the results, we propose guide-lines for designing proximity-based smartwatch interfaces and present ProxiWatch: a one-handed and proximity-based input modality for smartwatches alongside a proto-typical implementation.},\n}"
pdf = "muller2016proxiwatch.pdf"
preview = "muller2016proxiwatch.jpg"
doi = "10.1145/2851581.2892450"
keywords = ["design", "Design", "embodied", "human factors", "Human factors", "Human Factors", "measurement", "Measurement", "mobile", "notion", "smartwatch", "Smartwatch", "Smartwatch."]
+++

Smartwatches allow ubiquitous and mobile interaction with digital contents. Because of the small screen sizes, tradi-tional interaction techniques are often not applicable. In this work, we show how the degree of freedom offered by the elbow joint, i.e., flexion and extension, can be leveraged as an additional one-handed input modality for smartwatches. By moving the watch towards or away from the body, the user is able to provide input to the smartwatch without a second hand. We present the results of a controlled ex-periment focusing on the human capabilities for proximity-based interaction. Based on the results, we propose guide-lines for designing proximity-based smartwatch interfaces and present ProxiWatch: a one-handed and proximity-based input modality for smartwatches alongside a proto-typical implementation.