+++
title = "TicTacToes: Assessing Toe Movements as an Input Modality"
date = "2023-04-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Florian M\u00fcller, Daniel Schmitt, Andrii Matviienko, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Thomas Kosch, Martin Schmitz"
authors_html = "<span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Daniel Schmitt, Andrii Matviienko, Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Thomas Kosch, Martin Schmitz"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{mullerTicTacToesAssessingToe2023a,\n  author = {M\u00fcller, Florian and Schmitt, Daniel and Matviienko, Andrii and Sch\u00f6n, Dominik and G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Kosch, Thomas and Schmitz, Martin},\n  title = {TicTacToes: Assessing Toe Movements as an Input Modality},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2023},\n  month = {apr},\n  pages = {1--17},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI '23},\n  doi = {10.1145/3544548.3580954},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-9421-5},\n  eprint = {2303.15811},\n  archiveprefix = {arXiv},\n  keywords = {Body-Centric Interaction,Foot,Foot-Based Interaction,Input,mobile,Toes,xr},\n  abstract = {From carrying grocery bags to holding onto handles on the bus, there are a variety of situations where one or both hands are busy, hindering the vision of ubiquitous interaction with technology. Voice commands, as a popular hands-free alternative, struggle with ambient noise and privacy issues. As an alternative approach, research explored movements of various body parts (e.g., head, arms) as input modalities, with foot-based techniques proving particularly suitable for hands-free interaction. Whereas previous research only considered the movement of the foot as a whole, in this work, we argue that our toes offer further degrees of freedom that can be leveraged for interaction. To explore the viability of toe-based interaction, we contribute the results of a controlled experiment with 18 participants assessing the impact of five factors on the accuracy, efficiency and user experience of such interfaces. Based on the findings, we provide design recommendations for future toe-based interfaces.},\n  selected = {true},\n}"
pdf = "mullerTicTacToesAssessingToe2023a.pdf"
preview = "mullerTicTacToesAssessingToe2023a.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FzA-6F5SJ44"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2enVDAGiE8E"
arxiv = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.15811"
doi = "10.1145/3544548.3580954"
keywords = ["Body-Centric Interaction", "Foot", "Foot-Based Interaction", "Input", "mobile", "Toes", "xr"]
+++

From carrying grocery bags to holding onto handles on the bus, there are a variety of situations where one or both hands are busy, hindering the vision of ubiquitous interaction with technology. Voice commands, as a popular hands-free alternative, struggle with ambient noise and privacy issues. As an alternative approach, research explored movements of various body parts (e.g., head, arms) as input modalities, with foot-based techniques proving particularly suitable for hands-free interaction. Whereas previous research only considered the movement of the foot as a whole, in this work, we argue that our toes offer further degrees of freedom that can be leveraged for interaction. To explore the viability of toe-based interaction, we contribute the results of a controlled experiment with 18 participants assessing the impact of five factors on the accuracy, efficiency and user experience of such interfaces. Based on the findings, we provide design recommendations for future toe-based interfaces.