+++
title = "Mind the Tap: Assessing Foot-Taps for Interacting with Head-Mounted Displays"
date = "2019-06-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Florian M\u00fcller, Joshua McManus, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Martin Schmitz, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Markus Funk"
authors_html = "<span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Joshua McManus, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Martin Schmitz, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Markus Funk"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI '19"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{Muller2019,\n  author = {M\u00fcller, Florian and McManus, Joshua and G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Schmitz, Martin and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max and Funk, Markus},\n  title = {Mind the Tap: Assessing Foot-Taps for Interacting with Head-Mounted Displays},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI '19},\n  year = {2019},\n  pages = {1--13},\n  publisher = {ACM Press},\n  address = {New York, New York, USA},\n  doi = {10.1145/3290605.3300707},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-5970-2},\n  keywords = {all or part of,foot interaction,Foot interaction,hmd,HMD,human factors,Human factors,is granted without fee,notion,or hard copies of,permission to make digital,personal or classroom use,provided that copies,this work for,user study,User study},\n  abstract = {From voice commands and air taps to touch gestures on frames: Various techniques for interacting with head-mounted displays (HMDs) have been proposed. While these techniques have both benefits and drawbacks dependent on the current situation of the user, research on interacting with HMDs has not concluded yet. In this paper, we add to the body of research on interacting with HMDs by exploring foot-tapping as an input modality. Through two controlled experiments with a total of 36 participants, we first explore direct interaction with interfaces that are displayed on the floor and require the user to look down to interact. Secondly, we investigate indirect interaction with interfaces that, although operated by the user's feet, are always visible as they are floating in front of the user. Based on the results of the two experiments, we provide design recommendations for direct and indirect foot-based user interfaces.},\n  selected = {true},\n}"
pdf = "Muller2019.pdf"
preview = "Muller2019.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D5hTVIEb7iA"
doi = "10.1145/3290605.3300707"
keywords = ["all or part of", "foot interaction", "Foot interaction", "hmd", "HMD", "human factors", "Human factors", "is granted without fee", "notion", "or hard copies of", "permission to make digital", "personal or classroom use", "provided that copies", "this work for", "user study", "User study"]
+++

From voice commands and air taps to touch gestures on frames: Various techniques for interacting with head-mounted displays (HMDs) have been proposed. While these techniques have both benefits and drawbacks dependent on the current situation of the user, research on interacting with HMDs has not concluded yet. In this paper, we add to the body of research on interacting with HMDs by exploring foot-tapping as an input modality. Through two controlled experiments with a total of 36 participants, we first explore direct interaction with interfaces that are displayed on the floor and require the user to look down to interact. Secondly, we investigate indirect interaction with interfaces that, although operated by the user's feet, are always visible as they are floating in front of the user. Based on the results of the two experiments, we provide design recommendations for direct and indirect foot-based user interfaces.