+++
title = "Going, Going, Gone: Exploring Intention Communication for Multi-User Locomotion in Virtual Reality"
date = "2023-04-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Julian Rasch, Vladislav Dmitrievic Rusakov, Martin Schmitz, Florian M\u00fcller"
authors_html = "Julian Rasch, Vladislav Dmitrievic Rusakov, Martin Schmitz, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{raschGoingGoingGone2023,\n  author = {Rasch, Julian and Rusakov, Vladislav Dmitrievic and Schmitz, Martin and M\u00fcller, Florian},\n  title = {Going, Going, Gone: Exploring Intention Communication for Multi-User Locomotion in Virtual Reality},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2023},\n  month = {apr},\n  pages = {1--13},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI '23},\n  doi = {10.1145/3544548.3581259},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-9421-5},\n  keywords = {Connectedness,Locomotion,Multi-User,SocialVR,Teleportation,Virtual Reality},\n  abstract = {Exploring virtual worlds together with others adds a social component to the Virtual Reality (VR) experience that increases connectedness. In the physical world, joint locomotion comes naturally through implicit intention communication and subsequent adjustments of the movement patterns. In VR, however, discrete locomotion techniques such as point&teleport come without prior intention communication, hampering the collective experience. Related work proposes fixed groups, with a single person controlling the group movement, resulting in the loss of individual movement capabilities. To close the gap and mediate between these two extremes, we introduce three intention communication methods and explore them with two baseline methods. We contribute the results of a controlled experiment (n=20) investigating these methods from the perspective of a leader and a follower in a dyadic locomotion task. Our results suggest shared visualizations support the understanding of movement intentions, increasing the group feeling while maintaining individual freedom of movement.},\n  award = {bestpaper},\n}"
pdf = "raschGoingGoingGone2023.pdf"
preview = "raschGoingGoingGone2023.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IC9XBi4Tr34"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k9ZvRsWYHDU"
doi = "10.1145/3544548.3581259"
keywords = ["Connectedness", "Locomotion", "Multi-User", "SocialVR", "Teleportation", "Virtual Reality"]
+++

Exploring virtual worlds together with others adds a social component to the Virtual Reality (VR) experience that increases connectedness. In the physical world, joint locomotion comes naturally through implicit intention communication and subsequent adjustments of the movement patterns. In VR, however, discrete locomotion techniques such as point&teleport come without prior intention communication, hampering the collective experience. Related work proposes fixed groups, with a single person controlling the group movement, resulting in the loss of individual movement capabilities. To close the gap and mediate between these two extremes, we introduce three intention communication methods and explore them with two baseline methods. We contribute the results of a controlled experiment (n=20) investigating these methods from the perspective of a leader and a follower in a dyadic locomotion task. Our results suggest shared visualizations support the understanding of movement intentions, increasing the group feeling while maintaining individual freedom of movement.