+++
title = "A Vision for AI-Driven Adaptation of Dynamic AR Content to Users and Environments"
date = "2025-04-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Julian Rasch, Florian M\u00fcller, Francesco Chiossi"
authors_html = "Julian Rasch, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Francesco Chiossi"
venue = "arXiv"
bibtex = "@misc{raschVisionAIDrivenAdaptation2025,\n  author = {Rasch, Julian and M\u00fcller, Florian and Chiossi, Francesco},\n  title = {A Vision for AI-Driven Adaptation of Dynamic AR Content to Users and Environments},\n  year = {2025},\n  month = {apr},\n  number = {arXiv:2504.16562},\n  publisher = {arXiv},\n  doi = {10.48550/arXiv.2504.16562},\n  eprint = {2504.16562},\n  archiveprefix = {arXiv},\n  keywords = {Computer Science - Artificial Intelligence,Computer Science - Human-Computer Interaction,Human ai interaction,mobile,xr},\n  abstract = {Augmented Reality (AR) is transforming the way we interact with virtual information in the physical world. By overlaying digital content in real-world environments, AR enables new forms of immersive and engaging experiences. However, existing AR systems often struggle to effectively manage the many interactive possibilities that AR presents. This vision paper speculates on AI-driven approaches for adaptive AR content placement, dynamically adjusting to user movement and environmental changes. By leveraging machine learning methods, such a system would intelligently manage content distribution between AR projections integrated into the external environment and fixed static content, enabling seamless UI layout and potentially reducing users' cognitive load. By exploring the possibilities of AI-driven dynamic AR content placement, we aim to envision new opportunities for innovation and improvement in various industries, from urban navigation and workplace productivity to immersive learning and beyond. This paper outlines a vision for the development of more intuitive, engaging, and effective AI-powered AR experiences.},\n}"
pdf = "raschVisionAIDrivenAdaptation2025.pdf"
preview = "raschVisionAIDrivenAdaptation2025.jpg"
arxiv = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.16562"
doi = "10.48550/arXiv.2504.16562"
keywords = ["Computer Science - Artificial Intelligence", "Computer Science - Human-Computer Interaction", "Human ai interaction", "mobile", "xr"]
+++

Augmented Reality (AR) is transforming the way we interact with virtual information in the physical world. By overlaying digital content in real-world environments, AR enables new forms of immersive and engaging experiences. However, existing AR systems often struggle to effectively manage the many interactive possibilities that AR presents. This vision paper speculates on AI-driven approaches for adaptive AR content placement, dynamically adjusting to user movement and environmental changes. By leveraging machine learning methods, such a system would intelligently manage content distribution between AR projections integrated into the external environment and fixed static content, enabling seamless UI layout and potentially reducing users' cognitive load. By exploring the possibilities of AI-driven dynamic AR content placement, we aim to envision new opportunities for innovation and improvement in various industries, from urban navigation and workplace productivity to immersive learning and beyond. This paper outlines a vision for the development of more intuitive, engaging, and effective AI-powered AR experiences.