+++
title = "Through the Expert's Eyes: Exploring Asynchronous Expert Perspectives and Gaze Visualizations in XR"
date = "2025-10-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Clara Sayffaerth, Annika K\u00f6hler, Julian Rasch, Albrecht Schmidt, Florian M\u00fcller"
authors_html = "Clara Sayffaerth, Annika K\u00f6hler, Julian Rasch, Albrecht Schmidt, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>"
venue = "2025 IEEE International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality (ISMAR)"
venue_short = "ISMAR"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{sayffaerthExpertsEyesExploring2025,\n  author = {Sayffaerth, Clara and K\u00f6hler, Annika and Rasch, Julian and Schmidt, Albrecht and M\u00fcller, Florian},\n  title = {Through the Expert's Eyes: Exploring Asynchronous Expert Perspectives and Gaze Visualizations in XR},\n  booktitle = {2025 IEEE International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality (ISMAR)},\n  year = {2025},\n  month = {oct},\n  pages = {1311--1321},\n  publisher = {IEEE Computer Society},\n  doi = {10.1109/ISMAR67309.2025.00136},\n  isbn = {979-8-3315-8761-1},\n  eprint = {2509.00944},\n  archiveprefix = {arXiv},\n  keywords = {Computer Science - Human-Computer Interaction,mobile,xr},\n  abstract = {Transferring knowledge across generations is fundamental to human civilization, yet the challenge of passing on complex practical skills persists. Methods without a physically present instructor, such as videos, often fail to explain complex manual tasks, where spatial and social factors are critical. Technologies such as eXtended Reality and Artificial Intelligence hold the potential to retain expert knowledge and facilitate the creation of tailored, contextualized, and asynchronous explanations regardless of time and place. In contrast to videos, the learner's perspective can be different from the recorded perspective in XR. This paper investigates the impact of asynchronous first- and third-person perspectives and gaze visualizations on efficiency, feeling of embodiment, and connectedness during manual tasks. The empirical results of our study (-) show that the first-person perspective is better in quantitative measures and preferred by users. We identify best practices for presenting preserved knowledge and provide guidelines for designing future systems.},\n  langid = {english},\n}"
pdf = "sayffaerthExpertsEyesExploring2025.pdf"
preview = "sayffaerthExpertsEyesExploring2025.jpg"
arxiv = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.00944"
doi = "10.1109/ISMAR67309.2025.00136"
keywords = ["Computer Science - Human-Computer Interaction", "mobile", "xr"]
+++

Transferring knowledge across generations is fundamental to human civilization, yet the challenge of passing on complex practical skills persists. Methods without a physically present instructor, such as videos, often fail to explain complex manual tasks, where spatial and social factors are critical. Technologies such as eXtended Reality and Artificial Intelligence hold the potential to retain expert knowledge and facilitate the creation of tailored, contextualized, and asynchronous explanations regardless of time and place. In contrast to videos, the learner's perspective can be different from the recorded perspective in XR. This paper investigates the impact of asynchronous first- and third-person perspectives and gaze visualizations on efficiency, feeling of embodiment, and connectedness during manual tasks. The empirical results of our study (-) show that the first-person perspective is better in quantitative measures and preferred by users. We identify best practices for presenting preserved knowledge and provide guidelines for designing future systems.