+++
title = "Itsy-Bits: Fabrication and Recognition of 3D-Printed Tangibles with Small Footprints on Capacitive Touchscreens"
date = "2021-05-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Martin Schmitz, Florian M\u00fcller, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Jan Riemann, Huy Viet Viet Le"
authors_html = "Martin Schmitz, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Jan Riemann, Huy Viet Viet Le"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{schmitzItsyBitsFabricationRecognition2021,\n  author = {Schmitz, Martin and M\u00fcller, Florian and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max and Riemann, Jan and Le, Huy Viet Viet},\n  title = {Itsy-Bits: Fabrication and Recognition of 3D-Printed Tangibles with Small Footprints on Capacitive Touchscreens},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2021},\n  month = {may},\n  pages = {1--12},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI '21},\n  doi = {10.1145/3411764.3445502},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-8096-6},\n  keywords = {3d printing,3D Printing,Machine learning,Machine Learning,mobile,Tangibles,Touchscreen},\n  abstract = {Tangibles on capacitive touchscreens are a promising approach to overcome the limited expressiveness of touch input. While research has suggested many approaches to detect tangibles, the corresponding tangibles are either costly or have a considerable minimal size. This makes them bulky and unattractive for many applications. At the same time, they obscure valuable display space for interaction. To address these shortcomings, we contribute Itsy-Bits: a fabrication pipeline for 3D printing and recognition of tangibles on capacitive touchscreens with a footprint as small as a fingertip. Each Itsy-Bit consists of an enclosing 3D object and a unique conductive 2D shape on its bottom. Using only raw data of commodity capacitive touchscreens, Itsy-Bits reliably identifies and locates a variety of shapes in different sizes and estimates their orientation. Through example applications and a technical evaluation, we demonstrate the feasibility and applicability of Itsy-Bits for tangibles with small footprints.},\n}"
pdf = "schmitzItsyBitsFabricationRecognition2021.pdf"
preview = "schmitzItsyBitsFabricationRecognition2021.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WrdRQlt2fsA"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fI3zZz4fnMY"
doi = "10.1145/3411764.3445502"
keywords = ["3d printing", "3D Printing", "Machine learning", "Machine Learning", "mobile", "Tangibles", "Touchscreen"]
+++

Tangibles on capacitive touchscreens are a promising approach to overcome the limited expressiveness of touch input. While research has suggested many approaches to detect tangibles, the corresponding tangibles are either costly or have a considerable minimal size. This makes them bulky and unattractive for many applications. At the same time, they obscure valuable display space for interaction. To address these shortcomings, we contribute Itsy-Bits: a fabrication pipeline for 3D printing and recognition of tangibles on capacitive touchscreens with a footprint as small as a fingertip. Each Itsy-Bit consists of an enclosing 3D object and a unique conductive 2D shape on its bottom. Using only raw data of commodity capacitive touchscreens, Itsy-Bits reliably identifies and locates a variety of shapes in different sizes and estimates their orientation. Through example applications and a technical evaluation, we demonstrate the feasibility and applicability of Itsy-Bits for tangibles with small footprints.