+++
title = "Rethinking Smart Objects: The International Workshop on Interacting with Smart Objects in Interactive Spaces"
date = "2022-11-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Martin Schmitz, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Karola Marky, Florian M\u00fcller, Andrii Matviienko, Alexandra Voit, Roberts Marky, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Thomas Kosch"
authors_html = "Martin Schmitz, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Karola Marky, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Andrii Matviienko, Alexandra Voit, Roberts Marky, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Thomas Kosch"
venue = "Companion Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Interactive Surfaces and Spaces"
venue_short = "ISS"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{schmitzRethinkingSmartObjects2022,\n  author = {Schmitz, Martin and G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Marky, Karola and M\u00fcller, Florian and Matviienko, Andrii and Voit, Alexandra and Marky, Roberts and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max and Kosch, Thomas},\n  title = {Rethinking Smart Objects: The International Workshop on Interacting with Smart Objects in Interactive Spaces},\n  booktitle = {Companion Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Interactive Surfaces and Spaces},\n  year = {2022},\n  month = {nov},\n  pages = {64--67},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {ISS '22},\n  doi = {10.1145/3532104.3571470},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-9356-0},\n  keywords = {Smart Objects,Tangible Interfaces,Ubiquitous Computing},\n  abstract = {The increasing proliferation of smart objects in everyday life has changed how we interact with computers. Instead of concentrating computational capabilities and interaction into one device, everyday objects have naturally integrated parts of interactive features. Although this has led to many practical applications, the possibilities for explicit or implicit interaction with such objects are still limited in interaction spaces. We still often rely on smartphones as interactive hubs for controlling smart objects, hence not fulfilling the vision of truly smart objects. The workshop Rethinking Smart Objects invites practitioners and researchers from both academia and industry to discuss novel interaction paradigms and the integration and societal implications of using smart objects in interactive space. This workshop will include an action plan with leading questions, aiming to move the research field forward.},\n}"
pdf = "schmitzRethinkingSmartObjects2022.pdf"
preview = "schmitzRethinkingSmartObjects2022.jpg"
code = "https://smart-objects.org/"
doi = "10.1145/3532104.3571470"
keywords = ["Smart Objects", "Tangible Interfaces", "Ubiquitous Computing"]
+++

The increasing proliferation of smart objects in everyday life has changed how we interact with computers. Instead of concentrating computational capabilities and interaction into one device, everyday objects have naturally integrated parts of interactive features. Although this has led to many practical applications, the possibilities for explicit or implicit interaction with such objects are still limited in interaction spaces. We still often rely on smartphones as interactive hubs for controlling smart objects, hence not fulfilling the vision of truly smart objects. The workshop Rethinking Smart Objects invites practitioners and researchers from both academia and industry to discuss novel interaction paradigms and the integration and societal implications of using smart objects in interactive space. This workshop will include an action plan with leading questions, aiming to move the research field forward.