+++
title = "./Trilaterate: A Fabrication Pipeline to Design and 3D Print Hover-, Touch-, and Force-Sensitive Objects"
date = "2019-06-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Martin Schmitz, Martin Stitz, Florian M\u00fcller, Markus Funk, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
authors_html = "Martin Schmitz, Martin Stitz, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Markus Funk, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI '19"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{SchmitzMartinStitzFlorianMuller2019,\n  author = {Schmitz, Martin and Stitz, Martin and M\u00fcller, Florian and Funk, Markus and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max},\n  title = {./Trilaterate: A Fabrication Pipeline to Design and 3D Print Hover-, Touch-, and Force-Sensitive Objects},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI '19},\n  year = {2019},\n  pages = {1--13},\n  publisher = {ACM Press},\n  address = {New York, New York, USA},\n  doi = {10.1145/3290605.3300684},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-5970-2},\n  keywords = {3D printing,capacitive sensing,Capacitive sensing,force,Force,hover,Hover,touch,Touch},\n  abstract = {Hover, touch, and force are promising input modalities that get increasingly integrated into screens and everyday objects. However, these interactions are often limited to fat surfaces and the integration of suitable sensors is time-consuming and costly. To alleviate these limitations, we contribute Tri-laterate: A fabrication pipeline to 3D print custom objects that detect the 3D position of a fnger hovering, touching, or forcing them by combining multiple capacitance measurements via capacitive trilateration. Trilaterate places and routes actively-shielded sensors inside the object and operates on consumer-level 3D printers. We present technical evaluations and example applications that validate and demonstrate the wide applicability of Trilaterate. CCS CONCEPTS \\bullet Human-centered computing \\rightarrow Interaction devices; \\bullet Hardware \\rightarrow Tactile and hand-based interfaces;},\n}"
pdf = "SchmitzMartinStitzFlorianMuller2019.pdf"
preview = "SchmitzMartinStitzFlorianMuller2019.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4BT6Nw2kWPs"
doi = "10.1145/3290605.3300684"
keywords = ["3D printing", "capacitive sensing", "Capacitive sensing", "force", "Force", "hover", "Hover", "touch", "Touch"]
+++

Hover, touch, and force are promising input modalities that get increasingly integrated into screens and everyday objects. However, these interactions are often limited to fat surfaces and the integration of suitable sensors is time-consuming and costly. To alleviate these limitations, we contribute Tri-laterate: A fabrication pipeline to 3D print custom objects that detect the 3D position of a fnger hovering, touching, or forcing them by combining multiple capacitance measurements via capacitive trilateration. Trilaterate places and routes actively-shielded sensors inside the object and operates on consumer-level 3D printers. We present technical evaluations and example applications that validate and demonstrate the wide applicability of Trilaterate. CCS CONCEPTS \bullet Human-centered computing \rightarrow Interaction devices; \bullet Hardware \rightarrow Tactile and hand-based interfaces;