+++
title = "Tailor Twist: Assessing Rotational Mid-Air Interactions for Augmented Reality"
date = "2023-04-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Thomas Kosch, Florian M\u00fcller, Martin Schmitz, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Lukas Bommhardt, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
authors_html = "Dominik Sch\u00f6n, Thomas Kosch, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>, Martin Schmitz, Sebastian G\u00fcnther, Lukas Bommhardt, Max M\u00fchlh\u00e4user"
venue = "Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{schonTailorTwistAssessing2023,\n  author = {Sch\u00f6n, Dominik and Kosch, Thomas and M\u00fcller, Florian and Schmitz, Martin and G\u00fcnther, Sebastian and Bommhardt, Lukas and M\u00fchlh\u00e4user, Max},\n  title = {Tailor Twist: Assessing Rotational Mid-Air Interactions for Augmented Reality},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2023},\n  month = {apr},\n  pages = {1--14},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI '23},\n  doi = {10.1145/3544548.3581461},\n  isbn = {978-1-4503-9421-5},\n  keywords = {Augmented Reality,Mid-Air Gesture,Rotational Interaction},\n  abstract = {Mid-air gestures, widely used in today's Augmented Reality (AR) applications, are prone to the ``gorilla arm'' effect, leading to discomfort with prolonged interactions. While prior work has proposed metrics to quantify this effect and means to improve comfort and ergonomics, these works usually only consider simplistic, one-dimensional AR interactions, like reaching for a point or pushing a button. However, interacting with AR environments also involves far more complex tasks, such as rotational knobs, potentially impacting ergonomics. This paper advances the understanding of the ergonomics of rotational mid-air interactions in AR. For this, we contribute the results of a controlled experiment exposing the participants to a rotational task in the interaction space defined by their arms' reach. Based on the results, we discuss how novel future mid-air gesture modalities benefit from our findings concerning ergonomic-aware rotational interaction.},\n}"
pdf = "schonTailorTwistAssessing2023.pdf"
preview = "schonTailorTwistAssessing2023.jpg"
video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=25Nj5-MSnhA"
talk = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=auieeDWFqjA"
doi = "10.1145/3544548.3581461"
keywords = ["Augmented Reality", "Mid-Air Gesture", "Rotational Interaction"]
+++

Mid-air gestures, widely used in today's Augmented Reality (AR) applications, are prone to the ``gorilla arm'' effect, leading to discomfort with prolonged interactions. While prior work has proposed metrics to quantify this effect and means to improve comfort and ergonomics, these works usually only consider simplistic, one-dimensional AR interactions, like reaching for a point or pushing a button. However, interacting with AR environments also involves far more complex tasks, such as rotational knobs, potentially impacting ergonomics. This paper advances the understanding of the ergonomics of rotational mid-air interactions in AR. For this, we contribute the results of a controlled experiment exposing the participants to a rotational task in the interaction space defined by their arms' reach. Based on the results, we discuss how novel future mid-air gesture modalities benefit from our findings concerning ergonomic-aware rotational interaction.