+++
title = "Assessing Visualization and Interaction Techniques to Support Comparison Tasks in Virtual Reality"
date = "2025-04-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Henrike Weing\u00e4rtner, Julian Rasch, Nils Rothamel, Florian M\u00fcller"
authors_html = "Henrike Weing\u00e4rtner, Julian Rasch, Nils Rothamel, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>"
venue = "Proceedings of the Extended Abstracts of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems"
venue_short = "CHI EA"
bibtex = "@inproceedings{weingartnerAssessingVisualizationInteraction2025,\n  author = {Weing\u00e4rtner, Henrike and Rasch, Julian and Rothamel, Nils and M\u00fcller, Florian},\n  title = {Assessing Visualization and Interaction Techniques to Support Comparison Tasks in Virtual Reality},\n  booktitle = {Proceedings of the Extended Abstracts of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems},\n  year = {2025},\n  month = {apr},\n  pages = {1--6},\n  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},\n  address = {New York, NY, USA},\n  series = {CHI EA '25},\n  doi = {10.1145/3706599.3719737},\n  isbn = {979-8-4007-1395-8},\n  keywords = {xr},\n  abstract = {Desktop screens are effective for supporting comparison tasks, but as the scale increases to room-sized or larger structures, context is lost. Users are forced to focus on isolated details through panning, zooming, and scrolling, making it difficult to maintain an overview while exploring finer details. Virtual Reality (VR) potentially offers a solution to this problem by immersing users in 3D spaces and enabling more intuitive comparisons. While related work has proposed many solutions for visualizing and interacting for comparison tasks in desktop environments, knowledge regarding the efficacy of supporting such tasks in VR environments is still lacking. We investigated varying visualization and interaction techniques in a controlled experiment with 24 participants. Our findings provide valuable insights for designing VR systems that improve usability, reduce workload, and enhance performance in comparison tasks.},\n}"
pdf = "weingartnerAssessingVisualizationInteraction2025.pdf"
preview = "weingartnerAssessingVisualizationInteraction2025.jpg"
doi = "10.1145/3706599.3719737"
keywords = ["xr"]
+++

Desktop screens are effective for supporting comparison tasks, but as the scale increases to room-sized or larger structures, context is lost. Users are forced to focus on isolated details through panning, zooming, and scrolling, making it difficult to maintain an overview while exploring finer details. Virtual Reality (VR) potentially offers a solution to this problem by immersing users in 3D spaces and enabling more intuitive comparisons. While related work has proposed many solutions for visualizing and interacting for comparison tasks in desktop environments, knowledge regarding the efficacy of supporting such tasks in VR environments is still lacking. We investigated varying visualization and interaction techniques in a controlled experiment with 24 participants. Our findings provide valuable insights for designing VR systems that improve usability, reduce workload, and enhance performance in comparison tasks.