+++
title = "Exploring Redirection and Shifting Techniques to Mask Hand Movements from Shoulder-Surfing Attacks during PIN Authentication in Virtual Reality"
date = "2024-09-01T00:00:00Z"
type = "publication"
authors = "Yannick Weiss, Steeven Villa, Jesse W Grootjen, Matthias Hoppe, Yasin Kale, Florian M\u00fcller"
authors_html = "Yannick Weiss, Steeven Villa, Jesse W Grootjen, Matthias Hoppe, Yasin Kale, <span class=\"highlight-author\">Florian M\u00fcller</span>"
venue = "Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact."
venue_short = "PACMHCI"
bibtex = "@article{weissExploringRedirectionShifting2024,\n  author = {Weiss, Yannick and Villa, Steeven and Grootjen, Jesse W and Hoppe, Matthias and Kale, Yasin and M\u00fcller, Florian},\n  title = {Exploring Redirection and Shifting Techniques to Mask Hand Movements from Shoulder-Surfing Attacks during PIN Authentication in Virtual Reality},\n  journal = {Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact.},\n  year = {2024},\n  month = {sep},\n  volume = {8},\n  number = {MHCI},\n  pages = {257:1--257:24},\n  publisher = {ACM},\n  doi = {10.1145/3676502},\n  abstract = {The proliferation of mobile Virtual Reality (VR) headsets shifts our interaction with virtual worlds beyond our living rooms into shared spaces. Consequently, we are entrusting more and more personal data to these devices, calling for strong security measures and authentication. However, the standard authentication method of such devices - entering PINs via virtual keyboards - is vulnerable to shoulder-surfing, as movements to enter keys can be monitored by an unnoticed observer. To address this, we evaluated masking techniques to obscure VR users' input during PIN authentication by diverting their hand movements. Through two experimental studies, we demonstrate that these methods increase users' security against shoulder-surfing attacks from observers without excessively impacting their experience and performance. With these discoveries, we aim to enhance the security of future VR authentication without disrupting the virtual experience or necessitating additional hardware or training of users.},\n}"
pdf = "weissExploringRedirectionShifting2024.pdf"
preview = "weissExploringRedirectionShifting2024.jpg"
doi = "10.1145/3676502"
+++

The proliferation of mobile Virtual Reality (VR) headsets shifts our interaction with virtual worlds beyond our living rooms into shared spaces. Consequently, we are entrusting more and more personal data to these devices, calling for strong security measures and authentication. However, the standard authentication method of such devices - entering PINs via virtual keyboards - is vulnerable to shoulder-surfing, as movements to enter keys can be monitored by an unnoticed observer. To address this, we evaluated masking techniques to obscure VR users' input during PIN authentication by diverting their hand movements. Through two experimental studies, we demonstrate that these methods increase users' security against shoulder-surfing attacks from observers without excessively impacting their experience and performance. With these discoveries, we aim to enhance the security of future VR authentication without disrupting the virtual experience or necessitating additional hardware or training of users.